The Ariel Coast is a distant colonial province established by the kingdom of Almera over 370 years ago. An alcove of fertile farmland that lays between the sea and the mountains, this small region has been protected from the tumultuous regional warfare that occurs farther inland. In fact, the mountains have traditionally been so difficult to pass, the great cities of Cloudfire and Voldrash have been able to develop in relative peace. 

Early in this region’s history, the great natural beauty and peace of this land attracted many settlers from the homeland of Almera. They came to Cloudfire, the first port city established by Almeran settlers, and spread out to fill the valley with small townships and hamlets. Many of the people came to setup small and free independent farms, hoping to disrupt the natural lands as little as possible. It’s for this reason that The Deepine Forests and Palewoods are still largely untouched. 

The Almerans are not the first to settle this land. The ruins of a mysterious tower, often called the “Tower of Illusions” rises from the woods to overlook the valley from coast to foothills. Ruins to the east where all markings have eroded over time is often referred to as “The Crypt of the Silent King”, though few know the true nature of this stone structure. 

While Alemeran settlers tend to be human, their permissive trade and travel have brought all sorts of kin folk to the Ariel Coast. Homely Haflings and Industrious dwarves have also come to the valley in search of a new home. Dwarves especially have travelled to the south to found New Pass and Daggerbrook in the foothills. 

Like many lands with old forests, Wood Elves make their home in deep in the Deeppine forest. They are very rarely encountered. Their continued existence is only known because of frequent half-elven traders. Merchants who leave the wood to trade with humans and return their goods to the Forests. There are rumors and an air of mystery around these half-elf traders, but they are generally welcome and their business appreciated.

The very rare gnome or tiefling can also be found on the Ariel coast, but they are uncommon. A few gnomes tend to tinker with telescopes in the city of Starmyst, and a family caravan of tieflings roam the countryside in the wagons (similar to gypsies and travelers), living the free lives of bards and thieves. Tiefling women are commonly involved in divination and fortune telling, while the men tend to travel for seasonal farm work or odd jobs. 

In recent years, several events have been on the minds of all Almeran people living on the Ariel Coast. For one, trade and communication with the homeland has been suddenly diminished. There are rumors of civil war back home with ports being blockaded. Many sailors are now idle at the ports of Cloudfire and Whitescale, waiting for news that travel and trade is safe again. Another concern is that old roads have been uncovered by the dwarves of Daggerbrook that lead through the mountains and beyond the valley. Evidence was found that light traffic has been on this road recently. While many people are eager to explore beyond the mountains, the provincial governors are concerned that word will spread about the defenseless Almeran settlements. Currently, Almeran guards watch the road. Any civilians enounters on the southern roads are arrested and transported north to Voldrash for interrogation. 